---
layout: default
---

<img src="/images/2021-square.jpg" id="head">

# Hi, I'm Tobias.

I am a backend developer, and I spend most of my time building fast and powerful web APIs. Sometimes I also build the
matching frontends and websites. If that's something you need, come talk to me: I work as a **freelancer and
contractor**, and I'm always happy to take on new challenges.

## Projects

Given a choice, I usually build my APIs and backends with Python, for the most part with Django. My frontend development
focus is vue.js or plain minimal JavaScript, depending on the project I work with.<br>
The following projects showcase what I do and how I work – (see also: [my CV](/cv.pdf)):

### pretalx

[pretalx](https://pretalx.com) is an [open source](https://github.com/pretalx) conference management system. I built
  it for the most part on my own, with Django. It features a classic Django backend, with an additional RESTful API. The
  frontend is primarily plain HTML with equally plain JavaScript, but the parts requiring more flexibility, like the
  conference schedule, are written in Vue.js.
  
Additionally, I offer a successful hosted pretalx instance, for which I
  also take care of system administration work, like securing the service, providing updates and taking care of backups.
  I also provide customer support, so I'm no stranger to helping people solve their problems and figure out their
  use-cases and requirements.

### Venueless

[Venueless](https://venueless.org/en/) is an [open source](https://github.com/venueless/venueless/) virtual conference
platform that I created with [two](https://rash.codes/) [friends](https://raphaelmichel.de/) following the 2020
pandemic. Its backend is written in Django, but uses WebSockets and asynchronous messaging instead of older
technologies, to provide seamless real-time communications. The frontend is a Vue.js SPA. Venueless, despite being
created by a small team under significant pressure, has turned out to be a well-rounded and successful project used by a
wide variety of conferences and events.
  
### Training

I'm also offering **developer training** for advanced use of git and Django, for example for the city of Ulm, Germany.
These training events cover topics like best practices, security issues, workflow design to fit the company in question,
seamless migrations from older systems, and much more.


### Risk-assessment questionnaire

A good showcase for a typical consulting project: The risk-assessment questionnaire for the German Insurance Association
to determine the cyber risk of businesses of various sizes and occupations, currently in operation
[here](https://www.gdv.de/de/42860-42860). I took on the entire development of this project, consisting of a
Django-based REST API and a Vue.js frontend ready to be embedded in the final site. I collaborated with two other
freelancers, one who handled the project management (customer contact, requirements) and one who handled the more
involved parts of the frontend visualisation. As such, it is a good demonstration of a standard project, in terms of
technology, size, collaboration, and result.

### Plugins

[pretix-swap](https://github.com/rixx/pretix-swap), [pretix-juvare-notify](https://github.com/rixx/pretix-juvare-notify)
and [pretix-question-placeholders](https://github.com/rixx/pretix-question-placeholders) are just some of the
commissioned plugins I've developed for the pretix ticket shop system.

### Contributions

I enjoy contributing to open source software, and most of my projects are available on [GitHub](https://github.com/rixx)
and similar platforms. You can see my contributions to other open-source projects there, like
[Django](https://github.com/django/django/commits?author=rixx),
[pretix](https://github.com/pretix/pretix/commits?author=rixx), or
[Warehouse](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/commits?author=rixx).

## Talks and engagement

In my free time, I help run community conferences like [MRMCD](https://mrmcd.net), [Chaos Communication
Congress](https://events.ccc.de), or [DjangoCon Europe 2018](https://2018.djangocon.eu/). I'm generally active in the
open source community, especially in the Python/Django communities, where I participate at conferences, write [blog
posts](https://rixx.de), help moderate the Django community Discord, and am a member of the Django Software Foundation.

I've given a range of conference talks. You can see the full list [here](https://rixx.de/talks/), including the keynote
for the 2019 PyCon UK, and the Opening for the 2018 Chaos Communication Congress.

If you want to know more about me, you can head over to my [blog](https://rixx.de) or (to get to know the real me) to my
[book blog](https://books.rixx.de).

## Contact

I prefer email as an initial point of contact, where you can reach me by email at **r [at] rixx [dot] de**, but since
German websites have to list a phone number, you can also reach me at my office phone at tel:+4971549602404. <br>For
traditional mail, please use

<address>
Tobias Kunze<br>
Mühlenbecker Weg 1<br>
16515 Oranienburg<br>
Germany<br>
</address>


If social media is more your kind of thing, you can find me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/rixxtr) and on my
[Mastodon](https://chaos.social/@rixx) instance, or for more formal purposes on [GitHub](https://github.com/rixx) or
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tobias-kunze/).

###### Privacy Policy

<p class="noinitial" id="privacy"><small>This website does not require any cookies, and does not log or store any
information about you. I think I have to point out that for technical reasons, it has to remember your IP address for
long enough to send you the website content, but that's it. </small></p>
